# Hybrid-field Beam-split Pattern Detection-based Channel Estimation for THz XL-MIMO Systems
matlab主函数为nmse_pilot.m, channel_adjust_facor.m以及main_phi_spread.m。注意，matlab极化域码本生成方法相关代码参考[2]，支撑集偏移检测相关代码参考[3]。[2],[3]的代码见http://oa.ee.tsinghua.edu.cn/dailinglong/publications/publications.html。
This is the code for [1]. The main function of Matlab is nmse_pilot.m, channel_adjust_facor.m, and main_phi_spread.m. Note that the relevant codes of Matlab polar-domain codebook generation method refer to [2], and the relevant codes of support set offset detection refer to [3]. [2], [3] code see http://oa.ee.tsinghua.edu.cn/dailinglong/publications/publications.html.
[1] J. Lu, J. Zhang, H. Lei, H. Xiao, Z. Lu, and B. Ai,“Hybrid-field Beam-split Pattern Detection-based Channel Estimation for THz XL-MIMO Systems,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., early access, 2024.keywords: {XL-MIMO; hybrid-field communications; channel estimation; terahertz communications},
[2] M. Cui and L. Dai, "Channel Estimation for Extremely Large-Scale MIMO: Far-Field or Near-Field?," in IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 70, no. 4, pp. 2663-2677, April 2022. 
[3] M. Cui and L. Dai, “Near-field wideband channel estimation for extremely large-scale MIMO,” Sci. China Inf. Sci., vol. 66, p. 172303, Jun. 2023.
# Abstract
In this letter, we delve into the uplink channel estimation for terahertz extremely large-scale multiple-inputmultiple-output (XL-MIMO) communication systems, focusing on both the polar- and the angle-domains. Specifically, we explore the pervasive implementation of hybrid-field communication in XL-MIMO scenarios, addressing challenges such as the beam-split and power interference effects caused by bandwidth expansion and dense scatterer environments. As a solution, we present a hybrid-field channel estimation approach that utilizes the beam-split pattern detection method. Furthermore, to enhance the estimation accuracy, we prioritize the near-field channel estimationand minimize its impact on the far-field path components as much as possible. Simulation results validate that the proposed hybrid-field scheme outperforms benchmark algorithms in normalized mean square error (NMSE) performance.
# License and Referencing
If you in any way use this code for research that results in publications, please cite our original article listed above ([1]).
